<h1>🛒 E-Commerce Data Analytics – Python & SQL</h1>


<h3>What’s This About?</h3>
<p>In this project, I combined Python and SQL to analyze e-commerce sales data, find patterns in customer behavior, and understand product performance.</p>
<p>The aim was to get a complete picture from database queries to advanced Python visualizations of how the business is performing and where improvements can be made.</p>

<h3>Tools & Technologies</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Python – for data analysis & visualization</li>
  <li>SQL – for querying and filtering data from the database</li>
  <li>Pandas – data manipulation</li>
  <li>Matplotlib / Seaborn – for static visualizations</li>
  <li>Jupyter Notebook – workflow and documentation</li>
</ul>

<h3>What’s in the Project?</h3>
<ul>
  <li>SQL Queries – to extract and filter key metrics like total sales, top products, and active customers</li>
  <li>Data Cleaning – handling missing values, formatting dates, and fixing inconsistencies</li>
  <li>Exploratory Data Analysis – identifying trends in orders, categories, and customer demographics</li>
  <li>Performance Analysis – looking at sales growth over time and high-value customers</li>
  <li>Visualizations – turning raw numbers into clear, readable charts</li>
</ul>

<h3>Insights</h3>
<ul>
  <li>The Count of number of orders placed in 2017 :-  45101.</li>
  <li>The percentage of orders that were paid in installments is 99.9981 .</li>
  <li>Maximum number of customers is from SP state.</li>
  <li>In 2018 Maximum number of orders were in January and March. </li>
  <li>I have Calculated the total revenue generated by each seller, and ranked them by revenue.</li>
</ul>



